hey my little beauties Lhasa Montgomery
here as promised was it merely 168 hours
ago that we were talking about shootas
other claim to fame his two famous
students well today in this episode
we're gonna look at legalism and how it
became the ideology embraced by the
first Qin Emperor I mean I guess you
could say a lot of Emperor's who
followed as well let's first talk about
Han Fei and Lisa Master Han Fei of
course famous for the Han fades the
fifty-five chapter book that bears his
name
and Lisa the Machiavellian right-hand
man to the first emperor and also a
giant in Chinese culture two small seal
script and other things I'm not sure if
I ever mentioned Han fades before but
Lisa was prominently featured in that
two-part rise and fall of the chin
series both of these luminaries from
Chinese history studied at the g-shot
Academy in Qi under shinza up to this
point in time all four previous episodes
took place during the Eastern cha
dynasty shinza died in 238 BCE the last
and longest reigning Jo dynasty King
King none was deposed in 256 BCE
insurances lifetime and then from 259 to
221 BCE Qin Shihuang will do his thing
and finish up his conquest of all the
warring States and after his annexation
of the once unstoppable Chi state there
will be a unified Chinese country with
an emperor ruling over a large landmass
for the first time but remember
geographically this big beefy Chinese
Empire may all be new but well the
culture was already two thousand years
old the Jo dynasty may have fallen in
256 but the process really began in the
8th century BCE so it's safe to say for
something like five hundred years in
China people have been living in a
society where there was no strong
central authority and you never knew
when
some neighboring state might invade your
homeland 500 years ago for us was the
year 1517 so stop and think about living
in a place for more than 50 generations
where all you knew about was the specter
of war and it's a long time Guanzhong
primed the pump for confucius and shang
yang as well as shun boo high and shun
doll they did the same thing for Han Fei
and lee soo-chang yang 390 to 338 BCE
was a contemporary of Monza and wanza he
was a nobleman who served as an adviser
to Duke Xiao of Xin Shang yang
introduced reforms in Chien that greatly
enhanced the power and reach of the
central authority these reforms called
for strict laws and severe punishments
that well in theory would deter people
from deviating from the party line so to
speak reforms were also carried out in
trade and commerce as well as on
controlling the movements of the people
all of Xiang Yang's main ideas were
written into the book of Lord Shang
known as the Shang Zhou or the xiangjian
true it wasn't what you would call
legalism but Shang Xue surely gave Han
Fei and Lisa Food for Thought shunpo hai
is quite an interesting historic figure
aside from his work in legal as thought
and its impact on Han Fei and the
legalism adopted by the Chien shunpo hai
is known as one of the creators of the
Chinese administrative system the
legalists are credited with discovering
and implementing the so called Imperial
administration system that lasted 2,000
years and shunpo hai not an a-lister I
can tell you that his contribution in
actually designing the system was
profound especially with respect to
establishing a meritocratic system this
will later lead to the subsequent civil
service exams shen buhai was one of the
first to say hey forget about virtue
give me leaders who know how to do their
job Han Fei and Lisa were born in the
same year to 80 BCE Han Fei came from
Han state anxious
Hans State was it was quite small and
surrounded by Chu Sheen and way so talk
about two rocks in a hard place
hon today would be spread out over
portions of Shaanxi and Hunan
it said han fei became so disgusted with
the leadership of the current Han rulers
and their abilities that he just he just
got fed up and bolted as I said he later
ended up studying at the g-shot Academy
under shinza and there he met Lee su
Asuma Chen tells it convey had a stutter
which limited his options as far as
becoming an orator or teacher went
therefore Han Fei put all his talents
into writing and of all the Chinese
classics I have it on good authority
that the Han fades ax is the most
elegantly written one day Han Fei
received a letter from his old
schoolmate
Lisa Lisa knew the Prime Minister - yang
Jung the king of Qin now Ying Chun in
221 BCE will go on to become Qin
Shihuang this Prime Minister was of
course
Lupul Wei who we all know after helping
his king eing jung make it to the top
and he's gonna come to a bad end
but for the purposes of this part 5
episode Lupul Wei was Lisa's connection
at the Royal Palace Lisa became a very
close adviser to the future emperor of
China and he remembered his old
classmate back at the Chi Chou Academy
days and called him out - Chanda helped
him do all these great things so off to
Qin state Han Fei went and to say that
he became a big hit there it's quite the
understatement han fei by this time in
his career had figured people out like
his teachers shinza need agreed people
they know good on Faye wrote quote the
natural aspirations of the people are
such that they all move towards security
and benefits and avoid danger and
poverty public-spirited people are few
while private minded people are numerous
end quote and further to this on fate
did not believe education or
purposeful self-cultivation worked
either man on a practical level unfazed
famous words quote people go for
benefits as water flows downwards end
quote so where do you go from the
viewpoint that people ain't no good from
the start that sure is an uphill climb
han fei said people were like wood
he said look at such a common place
plentiful thing as an arrow don't we use
the term straight as an arrow
well you can't find wood that straight
in nature you have to condition it and
put it through a process to make that
arrow straight you can't just pick a
branch off a tree and and stick an
arrowhead on the end on face that people
were the same way he parted with
Confucius Hmong sessions and all those
ruse cool philosophers see he said yeah
yeah yeah all these traditions rituals
learning and etiquette they're all nice
to follow and maybe they make some
people good but it's just not practical
how many confusions can you find out
there who are truly capable to
administer the country the Great Sage we
only had 77 disciples that's not enough
firepower to make a difference on a
national scale Han Fei said there's
nothing that can beat the effectiveness
of the carrot and the stick
if you want to efficiently run
government you must establish a true
meritocracy we're only the most talented
will rise their virtue or other
Confucian qualities are subordinate to
the quality of the job they perform
furthermore the system ran on the
principle that everyone along the chain
of command from the highest official
down to the village peasant they had
something in it for them
if they did well and followed the rules
these ruse cool philosophers
particularly lionized the ancients and
pointed to them as the examples to
follow Han Fei said those guys are all
dead and gone and times have changed
drastically since they walked the earth
he would have heartily agreed with
Thomas Jefferson that life belongs to
the living like most of the
Philosopher's the Jo era he believed the
answer to creating a rich
and prosperous society all began with
the central authority the king for
example how does he ensure his kingdom
is staffed by the best officials the
military's top rate and the peasants
always productive hyung Fei teaches
there were five tools at the rulers
disposal first is the power of his
position there are also administrative
methods third is the law fourth are the
two handles and fifth is the way or dull
of the ruler the two handles
what are those han fei calls these the
two things that the ruler and only the
ruler with no exceptions
can control this is the authority to
divvy out rewards and punishment if he
allowed one of his ministers to wield
this power in his behalf Han Fei said
the people would no longer fear the king
and would instead try to curry favor and
avoid getting on the bad side of the one
who held this Authority only the ruler
touched those so-called two handles of
government Han Fei said legalism worked
this way first you put into place a
legal system and make sure everyone from
the bottom up all understands it
everyone knew what lines not to cross
and what was expected from them is a
person good are they bad what was a
person's innate nature Han Fei said it
didn't matter that wasn't gonna do
anything and besides was entirely
impractical to theoretical virtue was
nice but laws were what kept people in
order people didn't have to be good but
they were not allowed to be bad the
legalism didn't seek to improve people
it was all about managing them
legalism wasn't just all about laws was
both an ideology administrative and
political system all rolled up into one
and the ruler need not be a sage their
power was derived through their
authority at their virtue and
benevolence just as shen buhai had said
in the mid fourth century BCE the kings
used the Dolf of their position which
means acting like a ruler is supposed to
act managing their officials and
ministers saying little but control
everything because people are born
selfish the ruler appeals to the
self-serving nature of people and hangs
rewards and profit in front of them as
encouragement to do well and for those
who break the laws no matter who you
were everyone paid equally on Fable II
the system was foolproof because it
appealed to the natural evilness of
human nature all people had to do was
act naturally and as long as the laws
are enforced in time everything will
become second nature to everyone so you
can see how something like this and it
was very detailed would appeal to a
ruler Confucian as' they failed to offer
a solution their thought was too
theoretical if it only worked it would
be great but it didn't
legalism was the practical solution it
was idealism versus realism that's
legalism in a peanut shell people by
nature are not as monks it would have
you believe innately good they are the
opposite and for this reason you have to
build a socio-political system that
recognizes the selfish interests people
have if people see they can attain
pleasure and avoid pain by acting a
certain way that's all that matters
this idea had profound political
ramifications the ruler through their
intrinsic power over the two handles
crafted a very tight well controlled
administrative bureaucracy if you showed
quantifiable results you worked your way
up if you were bad at your job you went
nowhere
or worse legalisms contribution to the
future growth of China was in part due
to its role in building the
superstructure of the Imperial
bureaucracy the Qin Dynasty didn't last
too long but this way of organizing the
government did a real long time again
shen buhai he is the unsung hero of this
achievement Han fades uh as I mentioned
earlier became the darling of the Qin
court his elegant and forceful writing
where he's so exquisite
synthesized the legal astride Akane
before him and took all these ideas and
injected his thought that was
specifically relevant to those late
third century BCE times he became
everyone's favorite and that's when Lisa
decided a turn on his old Keisha
Academy classmate fearing his star might
possibly be eclipsed by Han Fei Lisa
began to suspect him and became jealous
of all this attention he was getting
especially at the royal court so one day
233 BCE
Lisa whispered to the king yang Jung
that Han Fei couldn't be trusted he gave
a bunch of reasons the future first
emperor a man who was known for his
paranoia thereupon ordered Han Fei to be
locked up in prison
then as the story goes Lisa was so
worried that King Ying Chun would change
his mind he sent poison to Han Fei in
his cell and suggested he better take
this painless way out rather than suffer
what the king had in store for him then
sure enough just as Lisa feared the King
had a change of mind about the matter
and called for Han Fei to be released
but too late Han Fei had already been
tricked into consuming the poison a
double betrayal by Lisa but he'll get
his later on so Han Fei never lived to
see the great success his ideology
became during that rigid and severe
decade of the Qin Dynasty the success of
legalism as the state ideology and it
didn't win any popularity contests once
Ching sure Wong's sealed his victory in
221 BCE a few things are going to happen
that will blow a little wind into the
sails of legalism in addition to
building the Great Wall and his
magnificent tomb the first Qin Emperor
had a lot of big ideas about the
direction he wanted to take China from
the moment that she no Emperor declared
victory he faced his detractors the
loudest voices were all coming from many
of these Falah
suffers they acted in a way like the
conscience of the day and they spoke out
no doubt quite eloquently against some
of the policies called for by the Qin
Emperor well Lisa had the ignoble honor
of being the one written into the
histories who advised his Emperor about
a way to get rid of these troublesome
meddling philosophers and all their
heated opposing opinions wafting about
the palace in Shenyang Lisa believed a
lot less resistance will be felt at the
top if there was only you know one
single political philosophy to rule them
all so to speak a hundred schools as far
as Lisa was concerned was 99 too many he
sold this idea to chin shirk Wong and in
213 BCE truly a year that will live in
infamy forevermore a torch was put to
all the books that concern themselves
with philosophy ideology and literature
technical books the e Jing and anything
that had a legal is bent
we're the only texts allowed now when I
say all these other works were destroyed
let me say not everything got put to the
torch but a lot did and just as with the
fire that gutted the Library of
Alexandria we could only wonder how much
knowledge and wisdom was lost to the
ages as a result of Qin Shih Huang's 213
BCE edict any works that could be saved
were buried underground until the times
changed it was a huge blow to
intellectual discourse and to the cause
of preserving China's heritage
three years later 210 BCE the Confucian
aswer silenced when 460 of them were
well supposedly buried alive in these
two acts burning the books and burying
the scholars the ultimate goal of having
one single state ideology across the
land was achieved and for his hand in
all this Lisa is going to run the
ancient Chinese gauntlet of vilification
Simha Chen is not going to be kind to
him and neither will the other
dynasty historians no one could say if
this is truth or fiction burning the
books burying the scholars it's been
part of Chinese history lore since so
much yeah and published the first
edition of the shirt G before we move on
let us not forget that it was Lisa more
than anyone else who managed the
projects that we're all credited to Qin
Shihuang in Chinese culture
standardizing the characters weights
measures currency and setting in place
all the gears wheels switches and
pulleys of the Chinese state the
complete mechanism legalism was not for
the squeamish depending on where you
were on the totem pole life was most
unforgiving and harsh the Hun swept away
the Qin in 206 BCE and carried out a
major realignment and after enjoying a
nice time on the stage legalism is gonna
be swept away and dissed and remember
shinza he is going to fall from grace
real hard for being the teacher of Lee
su and Han fades
shinza agreed with the legalists that
people weren't born innately good but
other than that he was all straight
Confucianism with a few nice
improvements at it in as Leo pang began
to get his new Han Dynasty in order he
had to take stock of the situation he
was the first of only two people in
Chinese history to have come from a
common non aristocratic background and
lead the fight to found a dynasty ja
Quan Yin of the song being the other and
Leo bong is also known by his temple
name hongou su he needed some serious
legitimizing his life was incredible we
all heard about it before in previous
CHP episodes but having a guy like him
as the Emperor well something was needed
to give him and his new dynasty some
shine not to mention legitimacy it
wasn't enough that the Qin Dynasty was
finished a lot of people came out with
their swords to give it to them
I'm not going to compare it to the
Cultural Revolution but it was a long
decade of unpleasantness and when it was
over
everyone muttered good bye and good
riddance under their breath and for
Confucianism you know being the
antithesis of legalism it was never
looking better and during the Han
Confucianism is going to have one heck
of a golden age let's look at how that
all happened and I'll do a little
name-dropping along the way so that we
can be familiar with the movers and
shakers of Han era Chinese philosophy in
deconstructing the Qin Dynasty hongou
Tzu started loosening up the laws but
what we would call a capital offense
while those were still subject to severe
penalties but for a lot of other things
that impacted everyone things loosened
up and life began to settle down and
then once everything was nice and stable
Confucianism began its comeback hongou
Tzu fought for in one everything that
had been created and put in place by the
Qin to say what you want about Qin Shi
Huang tyrant profligate he put a
government structure in place that
really allowed the Han Dynasty to get
off to a flaming hot start the Han will
expand the map of China to its greatest
extent in BCE times that was quite a
sizable operation to manage and the
perfect solution ended up being the
Confucian as' they were educated capable
knew all the ceremonies and rituals how
to read the calendar I mean they were
one-stop shopping for Hangul soo he had
them draw up a whole master plan on how
to manage all the rituals and ceremonies
and get this whole imperial court
staffed and looking good this included
all the imperial regalia and trappings
of being an emperor in no time at all
Leo Poong made the transition from
rough-and-tumble military man to regal
emperor hongou Siew of China
Confucianism began to thrive once again
and before long it was safe for everyone
to come out of the hundred schools of
thought that thrived during the Eastern
Jo many of them didn't make it to the
Han some got snuffed out during the Qin
there was also some consolidation were
rival schools of
joined together it wasn't what it used
to be but it was a totally new time when
huncles who sat on the throne and 206
BCE Confucius had been dead for 273
years a lot had changed and people knew
a lot more than they used to
Confucianism great moment arrived with
the Han Emperor Wu Han Wu D 156 287 BCE
one of China's greatest emperors he
makes it to most top ten lists our focus
is not so much on emperor wu as it is
the man behind the man this was another
one of the early greats of Chinese
culture and history dong Chun Qiu he's
one of those names like shen buhai
in that he's also not an a-lister in
Chinese history but he should be the
triumph of Confucianism was mainly due
to this person dong Chun Qiu and again
it wasn't enough that Confucianism
triumphed legalism was formally made a
scapegoat for all the ills suffered
under the chin Shang yang Han Fei Lisa
they all took a drubbing and the Mandate
of Heaven was first mentioned by dong
dong Xue this theory regarding the
interaction between heaven and man
allowing the Mandate of Heaven to slip
through their fingers was the easiest
and most obvious cause for the Chin's
fall and the hands rise this heavenly
mandate as introduced by dong was also
like a check on the power of the emperor
by the bureaucracy by establishing the
idea of this Mandate of Heaven this 10
Ming it ran both ways it gave the
Emperor and ruling house the most
important legitimacy but it also hung
over their heads like a sword of
Damocles ready to fall if their fortunes
went south or bad Emperor's natural
disasters or invasion started a signal
Heaven's disfavor let me quote from one
of domes works how he put it quote
heaven establishes Kings not on behalf
of rulers but on behalf of the people
therefore if his verse
two is sufficient to bring security and
happiness to the people
heaven bestows the mandate on him if his
evil is sufficient to injure and harm
the people heaven withdraws the mandate
end quote
under hon wu D and with Tong Tong whose
stewardship an imperial university was
established in 124 BCE which focused on
Confucian teachings and from this
university emerged all these Han era
Confucian scholars who went on to
populate the entirety of the Imperial
bureaucracy administration courts
everywhere all these officials who came
from this university had to pass what we
know is the civil service exams this
also was a creation of dong zhuo shoe
these exams institutionalized the
meritocracy already put in place during
the Qin by the legalists and these Jo
era Confucian classics became the
required texts these texts were during
dong Chun shoes period of service to the
Emperor
for the first time grouped together and
classified as the Wu Ching the five
classics the book of ODEs
book of documents book of rites the II
Ching and the spring and autumn annals
searching Shang Shu the ji e Ching and
twin chao these were the five books you
had to master if you had any hope of
joining the ranks of the civil service
so we could see how Confucianism attains
its preeminence during the reign of Hon
Wu D and with the help of his chief
minister don't come true and the magical
year was 136 BCE
that's when Confucianism by Proclamation
became the state ideology Confucianism
had come under attack almost as soon as
Master Kong past and 479 BCE the mo s
and others including the legalists had
pounded hard on Confucianism now this
roof school took its lumps but now it
had prevailed over its rival
philosophies thanks to its great
champion sacrifices were decreed in
Confucius's honor his texts were
engraved in stone
Confucianism would henceforth always
remain the philosophy of the air stock
see but unlike before the Han Dynasty
the aristocracy was not limited to the
nobility to make it nowadays all you
needed was real talent and virtue if he
were smart and talented enough to climb
the ladder you too could become one of
the beautiful people part of the Han
Emperor's conquests involved the 111 BCE
defeat of the nanyue kingdom down in the
southernmost region of China Guangdong
Guangxi now further south of them was a
place called Yunnan or southern yet
which we call Vietnam the Chinese went
into Vietnam and from that point on
starting in the Han with a break here
and there throughout the centuries China
dominated or at the very least
influenced vietnam court politics
that's why Confucianism caught on in
vietnam like no other place in Southeast
Asia
same with Taoism and Mahayana Buddhism
same could be said of Chinese writing as
well
the current Vietnamese writing system
only became widespread maybe a century
ago Confucianism Taoism and Buddhism
will be brought to Korea and Japan as
well and of course we'll have no less a
profound impact than they did in China
now I won't get into this right now but
starting right about here the rivalry
between the Confucianism government and
those of the Taoist persuasion and to
heat up a notch here by Hon Wu Dee's
time it had been about 400 years since
Louds and a century and a half since
trongsa so you could say Taoism by now
was somewhat mature and had spread far
and wide including into the halls of
power
pretty soon the Buddhists will also
throw their hat into the political ring
dong zhuo shoe is also credited with the
idea of correlative Confucianism here's
where philosophy takes on a new twist
dong dong Xiu came up with a theory that
combined yin and yang and the five
elements the washing with Confucianists
thought he was looking to shine a
spotlight on the correlation between
human behavior and heavens will the
interrelatedness of the cosmos and human
nature ten heaven
and human beings both were comprised of
the forces of yin and yang which
therefore means there was an intrinsic
connection between heaven and people
through the movement and interaction of
these forces don't believe that heaven
10 was both a natural phenomenon and a
God of sorts that expressed human will
always trying to warn or reward
humankind with all the signs of heavens
pleasure or displeasure don't Joe Xu
wrote that the universe was broken down
into ten parts heaven earth
yin-yang wood fire soil metal water and
humankind and because people were one of
the ten dong zhuo Xu said cosmology and
Confucianism both had an influence on
the human and natural worlds everything
was interrelated tied together by the
forces of yin and yang the universe
taught dongdongju was filled with these
ethers of yin and yang and humans were
immersed in these ethers change was
happening constantly and everyone was
affected by everything yeah the
Confucianism of the Han was not the same
as how they practiced it in the Jo and
we'll see it was an evolving ideology
after the shake-up that happened in the
world of Chinese philosophy during the
Qin it ultimately fell on the shoulders
of CIMMYT on father of somach yin to
sort out the surviving schools of
philosophy to divide them all up and
introduce the main ideas each one
espoused this is where we get that neat
and tidy bundle of the six schools of
philosophy according to CIMMYT on they
were the yin yang school the school of
names the Rou school the mo as' legalism
and what he called the Dada school but
was actually the Taoist school no one up
to Summit ons time was calling anyone a
Taoist yet but now that these myriad of
different schools had all been sorted
out Taoism or doubt yeah finally had a
specific classification this list would
later on be further enhanced by the
great Confucian scholar Leo Xin
he lived 46 BCE to 23 C II the time of
Augustus in Rome hand of Jesus it's also
the end of the Western Han he's
remembered for a few things first
he was the curator of the Imperial
library and oversaw an entire makeover
of the library organizing all the
surviving Chinese classics and
commentaries Leo Xin took the hundred
schools and further divided them into
ten schools now these were the same six
as mentioned by summit on plus the
school of diplomats Eclectics agrarians
and storytellers who were noted as the
least important of the ten now Leo Sheen
explained that these schools all had
their origins in different classes of
society he said that the ROO school came
from the Ministry of Education these
were the Confucian ously they were all
proficient in what I mentioned in part
to the Leo II the six arts writes music
archery chariot earring calligraphy and
mathematics these are among the subjects
that a typical Confucian scholar would
be proficient in Leo Sheen said that
they also stood for human heartedness
and held the ancients and the highest
possible esteem the Daoists Leo Sheen
said came from the official historians
the yin-yang school came from among the
astronomers the legalists no surprise
came from the Ministry of Justice the
school of names came to the Ministry of
ceremonies the moas were the temple
Guardians the diplomats school came to
the Ministry of embassies the eclectic
school from the councilors who dabbled
in multiple ideologies and the agrarian
school came from the Ministry of soil
and grains and last but not least the
storytellers came from the petty offices
and concerned itself mostly with the
word on the street so the Han Dynasty
really took an inventory of all their
philosophy cosmology and different
schools of thought and got everything
all organized and categorized for the
first time two people emerged during the
Han that I wanted to mention to show how
Confucianism was constantly evolving as
people became smarter and new theories
evolved by human beings and the forces
of heaven and nature that Confucian app
you know it needed an update every so
often as new ideas gained followers and
acceptance let's look at wang chong
he's a nice example of some of the many
new ideas and discoveries that have been
packed on to all that philosophical
thought and herod it from the Joe by the
Han there are a lot of philosophers who
went far beyond the thought that came
from Confucius monks and shinza to all
kinds of cool stuff was being discovered
argued and refuted during this exciting
time there was a split that occurred
within the Confucian is doctrine to
schools emerged the old text school was
headed up by Yong Chun and Wang Chung
they held most sacred those books that
had come from the Jo and managed to
survive the book burning drama of the
chain and 213 BCE these texts were
written in the old style the new text
school on the other hand used versions
of the classics that were more modern
and in the style of the Western Han Yong
Chun not an influential figure but he's
remembered for his belief that human
nature is neither originally good like
Hmong Jesus said nor as bad as what
shinza said Yong Chun Li argued that a
person's nature came about as a mixture
of both Wang Chung's work is contained
in a source known as the lien hung or
balanced discussions if there's a word
that defined Wang Chung I suppose you
could say it was skepticism
maybe rationalism - he let it all hang
out in the Lynn hung spewing forth his
doubts in every direction even
questioning Confucius himself and
rejecting Han beta altogether he
insisted he insisted that all these
philosophers who came before his time
shouldn't be accepted outright without
asking some difficult questions for
example he attacked the yin yang
school's doctrine that a nexus existed
between heaven and man Wang Chong had
written that people's place in the
universe is like that of a flea or a
louse under a jacket or robe
if people acted improperly or properly
morally or immoral II didn't do anything
to change the world a flea cannot affect
changes and neither can men that was the
main thing Wang Chung espoused and his
thoughts
we can't change heaven and heaven sure
as heck isn't going to go out of its way
to change us he was not a believer in
divine will he particularly focused some
of his rage against the belief in ghosts
now you could have spirits but he drew
the line at those who passed away and
came back as ghosts the rationalist and
Wang Chung said well if this was the
case more people had died in history
than were living in his day so that
reasoning right away gave the idea of
the Dead returning as spirits and ghosts
bad smell and Wang Chung's opinion Wang
Chung was one of those polymath types
who knew a lot about everything in fact
the great scholar of the history of
Chinese science Joseph Needham featured
in CHP episodes 155 and 156 spoke at
length about leung jones contributions
to astronomy irrigation and meteorology
in particular like a lot of people who
were extremely brilliant and have high
IQs wang chong found it hard to get
along with those officials he rubbed
elbows with he had this outrage about
what Chinese philosophy had degraded too
in his time
Confucianism had already been made the
state ideology by Han moody for over a
hundred years and Confucius was
worshipped as a God as for Taoism which
we'll focus on next episode it had come
a long way since Louds and Wong's
Thursday in the way Wang Chong saw
Taoism it had mostly degraded into a
religion filled with superstition lucky
talismans and too many people making
money as Fung Shui masters Wang Chong
really turned his nose up at this but
despite all the resistance Taoism was
having a real growth spurt during the
Han Emperor Huang who reigned 146 to 168
even had a temple built at Louds his
birthplace where people could go and
venerate him
while Chong was going around saying all
those old books and commentaries about
the sages needed to be reevaluated and
should never be accepted at face value
for example he pointed at something as
common as the rain while Chong said that
the Confucian estill have you believed
the rain came from the heavens but if
you study the rain closely it rains down
from a position just above the earth not
from heaven he had a lot to say about
Chi now we're gonna explore the concept
of Chi in detail later but she is
defined as a gasps air breath smell
weather and vital energy it has a lot of
meanings but the one we care most about
is the Chi that any living thing
possesses their vital life force and Chi
interacts with the five elements and
with yin and yang and just that alone
ladies and gentlemens
brings you everything there is in the
world as we know it as I said we've all
heard about Chi that's the same word Chi
as in chi gong you've heard about that
perhaps it's already part and parcel of
Chinese philosophy in the Han but Chi
the five elements yin and yang they all
play an even greater role in Chinese
philosophy as we move along the
historical timeline we're gonna close
things out here for now little earlier
than usual next episode we are going
back to the Zhuo dynasty again I'm gonna
do for Dao is on what I did for the e
Jing I'll try and unpack it and explain
it I covered Taoism and CHP episodes 50
51 and 52 you might notice those three
episodes are now missing off the extents
of CHP back-catalogue
adding three more gaps in the CHP list
of episodes you know how nature abhors a
vacuum okay everyone let's call it a day
here and next week we can kick back and
relax and learn about Taoism
there's Taoism the philosophy which is
what we will concern ourselves with
there's also the Taoist religion which
we will not discuss I may leave that
Taoism episode 53 in the mix and simply
rename it
mmm decisions decisions until the next
time Laszlo Montgomery here signing off
with love and respect from a location
that may or may not be a secret
warehouse walking distance from first
Kucha here in the LA Arts District
consider making time next week if you've
absolutely nothing better to do with
your good selves for another exciting
episode of a China history podcast
you